### Pros and Cons

### Pros
* **They are distributed.** This means that one could perform transactions relatively quickly and cheaply with any member of a blockchain network, regardless of geographic location. It also means that, for financial applications like Bitcoin, they are decetralized. This is amazing because no one organization/agency can determine the value of a cryptocurrency. Additionally, third party transactions are not needed. You exchange blockchain with an individual, with no entity looking over your shoulder.
* **Bigtime Privacy.** One does not have to provide any personal information to exchange cryptocurrencies. In the ledger, one would only see a hash that is derived from your public key, which is not a security risk and cannot be tied to you in any way.
* **Transparency.** Blockchains are published to every node in the network. This means every transaction is subject to scrutiny, making it hard to forge or manipulate transactions. Essentially, a Bitcoin user's wallet's transactions can be traced back to their first purchase, but the owner of the wallet cannot be determined. It's like how your gamertag does not reveal to other online players who your true identity is.
* **Automation.** Transactions can be automated with *smart contracts*. Once a condition specified within the contract is met, the next step in the transaction is automatically triggered. An example, if a customer has provided all necessry documentation to file an insurance claim, the claim can automatically be settled and paid.

### Cons
* **Energy consumption.** I read recently that the bitcoin network consumes as much energy as all of Switzerland. This is scary, especially as more and more attention gets paid to crypto. Perhaps an overlooked fault in the design of blockchains, a miner is essentially trading energy in for value by having their computers run, continuously trying to mine blocks.
* **51% attacks.** The reason bitcoin is considered decentralized is because there is no one body with a majority of the coins, or that owns a majority of the network. Thus, no one entity has any incentive to behave unethically. However, as soon as one entity owns 51% of a blockchain network, they are economically incentivised rewrite or alter blockchain records, since that entity could be a majority in approving these changes. Remember, a key step in the block generation process is gaining approval from the other nodes in the network.
* **Scalability.** One block is created every 10 minutes on the bitcoin network. This means that a potential transaction could take 10 minutes, minimum, to be recorded in the ledger. This provides major scalability issues, especially when you compare this to something like Visa, which processes thousands of transactions per second.
* **Memory issues.** As mentioned earlier, nodes in most blockchain networks are required to store the entire transaction history of the network before they can transact. In bitcoins case, this exceeds 100GB. What's worse is this 100GB is redundantly replicated across all nodes. This is why users typically do not try to use a locally stored wallet for crypto, opting for sites like coinbase.com. However, as much as they might like to disclaim it, using these sites essentially creates a third-party in any transaction performed. For a currency that claims to be totally peer-to-peer, this is somewhat of an issue.